# Game engine
What game engine should I use?

## Problem
### 2D
The game is 2D based. Easier to use and lower resource requirements. Game engine should be able to handle this.

### Web based
The engine must export to a web application, or produce code that can be run in a browser.

### Primitives
The engine must be able to draw primitive shapes like rectangles, lines and circles. Easy prototyping starts
with me drawing circles.

### Long term development
As I will work on this in my spare time, I don't have the resources to keep up with new engine developments.
If the engine changes significantly I will have to complete the game on an older engine and may miss out on
critical updates.

## p5
[p5](https://p5js.org/) is a JavaScript variant of [Processing](https://processing.org/). This was originally
a Java engine that could produce primitive graphical objects and interact with a canvas. p5 was adapted to
work on the web to create rich multimedia programs, like games.

It uses the MIT license, so I am free to use this in commercial software without any fees. 

### Why not p5?
p5 is low level and not designed for games, so there are a few low level components I need to rebuild.

#### No built-in GUI library
I have to build my own in-app GUI, rather than using the browser's HTML widgets. There is a lot of look-and-feel
I need to reproduce.

On the plus side, there are very complicated interactions for specific activity. It may be easier to make 
it from scratch.

#### No resource loading
Because I have to access so many images, sound and data files, I need to have a robust resource loader.
It needs to be able to load resources and block until it finishes. I also need to release resources when I am
done.

I have to build this from scratch and the problem is far from solved.

## Alternatives
### Unity
Unity spent several years going for smaller developers, and was able to make many 3D games when bigger engines
like Unreal were too expensive.

#### Lacked 2D and web support
2D support was intermittent and somewhat lacking. They had a web export option but dropped it for more platforms.
Eventually they did develop a 2D library.

#### Proprietary software
In 2021 they were purchased by a company focusing on mobile platforms and became very aggressive towards 
monetization. In late 2023, they announced a new pricing model and tried to revoke older licensing agreements.
This earned the ire of the entire Indie space, and they have been in damage control ever since.

I don't know how long I will work on this product and I don't want to be held back when the license changes 
on a whim.

### Godot
Godot is a software platform that can produce games in 2D and 3D varieties. It uses the MIT license which is
very open and requires no royalties.

#### Immature
Godot is good for low fidelity 3D projects and lacks some of the advanced features. Not needed for a 2D game, 
but indicates there are more features to work on. Also they will probably tilt more towards 3D development.

